So with the marker added in the last lecture, let's now make sure that the map actually smoothly transitions
to the marker whenever we pick a location.
The react native maps API provides a method for this too, you can learn more about it in the docs,
on the map view, there you will see that we got a method,
animateToRegion at the very bottom of the documentation.
The question just is how can we call a method on this map view which is a component in our jsx code? We can
use a react concept called ref for this, we can get a reference to the underlying object and
use that in our other javascript code. For this,
we add a property to map view, ref and this is a default react feature now
and there we have to pass an inline function, an arrow function where we get the reference as an argument, react
will generate this for us and then we can bind some property of our class to this reference.
You access the class with the this keyword,
the class is this overall class here,
so our pick location class. We access this with this, then here
I'm going to name this map but you can choose any name you want and assign that to this ref.
So this creates a property in your class which holds a reference to this object and you can then use
this object in your code.
Now I want to do this in the pick location handler, right before we call set state though that would run asynchronously
so doing it after it would also work
but still, let's do it like this.
I will call this map,
so that's now refering to this property we just added which will refer to our map and there,
animateToRegion.
Now this method needs a javascript object to configure this region we want to navigate to,
you can find more information on the official docs.
You see the arguments actually are the region and then the duration over which you want to navigate
or to animate,
you can leave away duration and it will then automatically pick a nice one.
So the region I want to go to is this state focused location, use all the properties from there with the
spread operator
but then I want to override latitude and longitude,
so I just want to use the deltas. Latitude should be coords latitude of course and longitude should
be coords longitude therefore, like this.
With that change in place, we can also remove the region property from map view because now I no longer
need that, initial region is
all I need now because I will animate to the new region, we don't need to hard code it in here.
So with this set up, let's save all of that and let's reload it on ios,
sign in and now let's click somewhere and you see that it's smoothly animates there.
So that's much better
and it will work exactly the same on Android.
So with that we also added an animation and that's just awesome
and you saw how super simple this was
and along the way, you learned how to use different components from the react native maps package, how
to configure it with props and how to also use the methods these components provide by using this ref trick
which is not really a trick but a built-in feature, just one you don't use that often normally.
Now that is all nice, we can add
and we should add one more thing though,
hook up this locate me button
to also give the user the alternative of not picking a location manually but instead take the user
location.
Let's do this as a next step.